# Enzyme Design in RFdiffusion3

## Before We Get Started...
This tutorial does not cover installing RFD3. Before continuing, you should make sure that RFdiffusion3 (RFD3) is installed and runnable on your system. 

See the [README](https://github.com/RosettaCommons/foundry/tree/production/models/rfd3) for installation instructions. You will need to remember the path to the directory where you stored your checkpoint files. 

```{note}
The instructions below assume that you have installed RFD3 via the pip commands.
You may need to slightly modify how you run the calculations based on your setup.
```

Make sure you have activated any environment(s) you used to install RFD3.

RFD3 runs best on GPUs. It is suggested to follow this tutorial on an interactive GPU node if you have access to one.

You will need the file `lig.pdb`. This is provided in [`foundry/models/rfd3/docs/enzyme_tutorial_files/`](enzyme_tutorial_files/1euv_lig.pdb). You can clone the [`foundry`](https://github.com/RosettaCommons/foundry) repository to easily access files related to this tutorial. 

Lastly, we will be visualizing the outputs of the calculations presented in the tutorial using [PyMOL](https://pymol.org/). The visualization steps are completely optional, but if you would like to follow along you will need to have PyMOL installed. 

(enzyme-learning-objectives)=
## Learning Objectives
In this tutorial, we will use RFdiffusion3 to design cysteine hydrolases, similar to what is described in [*De novo* design of All-atom Biomolecular Interactions with RFdiffusion3](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2025.09.18.676967v2). This will allow us to explore the constraint options useful in enzyme design tasks. 

(enzyme-setup)=
## Setup
Create a directory named `rfd3_enzyme_tutorial` and `cd` into it:
```bash
mkdir rfd3_enzyme_tutorial && cd rfd3_enzyme_tutorial
```
This is where you will be storing the files related to this tutorial. 

If you would like to compare your outputs against those generated by the authors of this tutorial, you can find pre-generated output files in `foundry/models/rfd3/docs/enzyme_tutorial_files`.


There is also a pre-made JSON file available in `foundry/models/rfd3/docs/enzyme_tutorial_files`. We recommend following the tutorial to create this file yourself to better understand the RFD3 options that are relevant to enzyme design. 

(enzyme-creating-the-json-file)=
## Creating the JSON file
In the next few sections we will be briefly describing the settings we will be using for this example enzyme design project. If you would like more information about the options discussed here or information about the other options that are available, see the [input specification](input.md) documentation.

1. Using your editor of choice, open a new file called `rfd3_enzyme_tutorial.json`. This is where we will be storing the options we will use to constrain our enzyme design. 
1. This is a JSON file, so all of the options contained in it need to be encapsulated in curly braces ({}). Go ahead and add a pair of these to your file.
1. Like all designs you will create using RFD3, we need to start by giving our calculation a name. It should be short, but descriptive, so let's call it `cys_1euv_lig`. Add this name in quotes to your file and place a colon and another pair of curly brackets after this. Your file should now look like: 
    ```json
    {
        "cys_1euv_lig":{

        }
    }
    ```
1. Next we need to specify the structure file (PDB, CIF, etc.) that contains information about any input structures related to our calculation: 
    ```json
    "input": "path/to/1euv_lig.pdb",
    ```
1. The identifier representing the ligand in our PDB file needs to be listed so that RFD3 knows to treat this molecule differently:
    ```json
    "ligand": "l:g",
    ```
    ```{note}
    The ligand used in this tutorial is not a real molecule. Placing a colon (:) in your ligand name ensures that it does not match a molecule in the [Chemical Component Database](https://www.wwpdb.org/data/ccd). If you are running a calculation that uses a real ligand, feel free to use its actual chemical identifier. 
    ```
1. Add an option to `unindex` the residues in the input file. These residues were determined to be important for the enzymatic activity we are trying to create and design a protein around. However, we don't know where in our created protein we want these enzymes to be, making this option incredibly useful for enzyme design:
    ```json
    "unindex": "A514,A531,A574,A579-581",
    ```
    ```{important}
    Choosing the residues to use in your enzyme design comes from knowledge of your system, literature searches, etc. The only guidance we will give on this topic, is to try several combinations of the residues you think are important for your enzyme design. Too many and you might overconstrain your system, too few and you are less likely to obtain useful designs. 
    ```
1. We will use the `length` option to tell RFD3 how long we want our designed proteins to be: 
    ```json
    "length": "100-200",
    ```
1. To define where our protein should be centered, we will give RFD3 an 'ori token'. This specifies the *ori*gin (center of mass) of the designed portion of our output structure:
    ```json
    "ori_token": [0,1,0],
    ```
    <!-- TODO: Add image of ORI token here -->
    ```{important}
    In this example the ori token is placed close to the center of our input structure. When designing your own enzyme scaffolds, you should try many ORI token placements. See the [RFdiffusion2 paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41592-025-02975-x) for more information about how ORI tokens impact the results of diffusion calculations.
    ```
1. Even though we do not care where our residues end up in our final protein sequence, we want their geometries (or at least some of their atoms) to remain in the same place spatially so that their relationships to the ligand stay the same. For this we use `select_fixed_atoms`:
    ```json
    "select_fixed_atoms": {
        "A514":"NE2,CE1,ND1,CD2,CG,CB",  
            "A531":"OD1,CG,OD2,CB", 
            "A574":"NE2,CD,OE1,CG", 
            "A579":"C,O,CA,N", 
            "A580":"SG,CB,CA,N,C,O", 
            "A581":"C,O,CA,N"
    },
    ```
1. RFD3 allows for RASA conditioning to control how exposed or buried different portions of your input are relative to the designed protein.
    <!-- TODO: Add image of buried vs. exposed in one of the designed proteins -->
    ```json
    "select_buried": {
        "l:g": "O1,C8,O3,C4,C5,C23,C24,C25,C26,C27"
    },
    "select_exposed": {
        "l:g": "C2,C22,C19,C18,C17,C20,C16,C15,O21,O14,C13,C12"
    },
    ```
    As the names of the options suggest, RFD3 will do its best to bury atoms that were passed to the `select_buried` option and expose the atoms passed to the `select_exposed` option. 
    
    There is a third option for RASA conditioning which was not used here,`select_partially_buried`, that you might find useful for your protein design tasks
1. Next we're also going to unfix the *sequence* for residues A579 and A581. This will allow their side chains to change. You'll notice that the atoms from these residues passed to `select_fixed_atoms` are only the backbone atoms for these residues, so there should be no issues from using both of these options. 
    <!-- TODO: ask Saman why this is useful, does the unindex at the beginning still keep 579-581 together? -->
    <!-- TODO: add image with atom labels -->
    ```json
    "select_unfixed_sequence": "A579,A581",
    ```
1. To ensure that none of the other input residues have their side chains redesigned, we will set `redesign_motif_sidechains` to False. 
    <!-- TODO: ask Saman why this is included, from what I can tell the default is false.-->
    ```json
    "redesign_motif_sidechains": false
    ```
1. Save your file and close it. Your files should be similar to what is stored in `basic.zip`.

(enzyme-running-rfd3)=
## Running RFD3
To actually run RFD3 you need to know:
- the directory you want the outputs to be stored in
- the path to the JSON (or YAML) file that stores the specific settings for the calculation
- the location of your checkpoint files

Once you have these three things you can run something like this from the command line:
```bash
rfd3 design out_dir=enzyme_tutorial_outputs/0 inputs=rfd3_enzyme_tutorial.json ckpt_path=/path/to/your/checkpoint/files/rfd3_latest.ckpt 
```
Your output files will be placed in a new directory `enzyme_tutorial_outputs/0`.  Your output files will be named `enzyme_tutorial_cys_1euv_lig_0_model_n.cif.gz` where `n` is the number of the design. `enzyme_tutorial` comes from the name of the JSON file and `cys_1euv_lig` comes from the name you gave your calculation in the JSON file.

```{note}
You may see several warning messages when you run RFD3, these should not interfere with the calculation. 
```

(enzyme-analyzing-the-outputs)=
## Analyzing the Outputs
You should end up with 8 designs, numbered 0-7, each with its own `.cif.gz` and `.json` file. If you want to adjust the number, add the configuration option `diffusion_batch_size` to your `rfd3 design` command.

The JSON file has many details about your diffusion run, including the options in the YAML file you created. The compressed CIF file contains information about the final diffused structure that you can easily visualize with tools like PyMOL. 

Your results should look something like this: 
<!-- TODO: add image of the outputs-->

You'll notice:
- The fixed atoms have stayed in place, once the structures have been aligned to the ligand
- In almost al the structures the exposed and buried atom selection was honored
- The index of the original residues has changed (easy to tell in this example because we have held their coordinates fixed, you can see the mapping in the output JSON file.)
- The structures are all the same length, which is between 100 and 200 residues long. (All designs in the same batch will have the same length. Set the batch size to 1 if you want to design proteins with all different lengths.)

(enzyme-references)=
## References and Further Reading
- For more information on the different inference settings in RFD3, see [input.md](input.md)
- For more information about this calculation see...
- A more thorough discussion of the settings and configuration options in RFD3 can be found [here](intro_inference_calculations.md)