# Nuclei Acid Binder Design in RFdiffusion3

## Before We Get Started...
This tutorial does not cover installing RFD3. Before continuing, you should make sure that RFdiffusion3 (RFD3) is installed and runnable on your system. 

See the [README](https://github.com/RosettaCommons/foundry/tree/production/models/rfd3) for installation instructions. You will need to remember the path to the directory where you stored your checkpoint files. 

```{note}
The instructions below assume that you have installed RFD3 via the pip commands.
You may need to slightly modify how you run the calculations based on your setup.
```

Make sure you have activated any environment(s) you used to install RFD3.

RFD3 runs best on GPUs. It is suggested to follow this tutorial on an interactive GPU node if you have access to one.

You will need the file `2r5z.pdb`. <!-- TODO --> This is provided in [`foundry/models/rfd3/docs/input_pdbs`](./input_pdbs/2r5z.pdb). You can clone the [`foundry`](https://github.com/RosettaCommons/foundry) repository to easily access files related to this tutorial. 

Lastly, we will be visualizing the outputs of the calculations presented in the tutorial using [PyMOL](https://pymol.org/). The visualization steps are completely optional, but if you would like to follow along you will need to have PyMOL installed.

(na-learning-objectives)=
## Learning Objectives
In this tutorial, we will design a DNA-protein complex to explore the settings available in RFD3 that are useful for nucleic acid binder design. 
(na-setup)=
## Setup
Create a directory named `rfd3_na_tutorial` and `cd` into it:
```bash
mkdir rfd3_na_tutorial && cd rfd3_na_tutorial
```
This is where you will be storing the files related to this tutorial. 

If you would like to compare your outputs against those generated by the authors of this tutorial, you can find pre-generated output files in `foundry/models/rfd3/docs/na_tutorial_files`.
The 'basic' zip file contains outputs that did not use the setting discussed in the [Hydrogen Bond Conditioning](#hydrogen-bond-conditioning) section. The 'hbond' zip file has the outputs resulting from using hydrogen bond conditioning. 

There is also a pre-made JSON file available in `foundry/models/rfd3/docs/na_tutorial_files`. We recommend following the tutorial to create this file yourself to better understand the RFD3 options that are relevant to nucleic acid binder design. 

(na-creating-the-yaml-file)=
## Creating the JSON file
In this tutorial, we will be briefly describing each of the settings we will be using for this example. 

1. Using your editor of choice, open a new file called `rfd3_na_tutorial.json`. This is where we will be storing the options we will use to constrain our enzyme design. 
1. This is a JSON file, so all of the options contained in it need to be encapsulated in curly braces ({}). Go ahead and add a pair of these to your file.
1. Like all designs you will create using RFD3, we need to start by giving our calculation a name. It should be short, but descriptive, so let's call it `dsDNA_complex`. Add this name in quotes to your file and place a colon and another pair of curly brackets after this. Your file should now look like: 
    ```json
    {
        "dsDNA_complex":{

        }
    }
    ```
1. Next we need to specify the structure file (PDB, CIF, etc.) that contains information about any input structures related to our calculation: 
    ```json
    "input": "path/to/2r5z.pdb",
    ```
1. To define the portions of our final structure that will be defined vs. taken from our input structure file, we will use the `contig` option:
    ```json
    "contig": "C5-18,/0,D24-37,/0,40-50,A146-154,80-90",
    ```
    Let's break down what's going on here a bit further: 
    - `C5-18`: Our final design will start with residues C5-C18 from our input PDB
    - `/0`: This indicates a chain break, the C5-18 residues will not be connected to anything coming next in our `contig` string.
    - `D24-27`: After the chain break we have residues D24-37 from the input structure file.
    - `/0,40-50`: After another chain break RFD3 will design a segment with 40-50 residues.
    - `A146-154`: residues A146-154 from the input structure will be connected to the C-terminus of the designed residues
    - `80-90`: RFD3 will design 80-90 residues connected to the C-terminus of A154 from the input structure
1. Since there are two portions of the designed structure with random lengths, it is useful to specify the overall `length` of our design: 
    ```json
    "length": "147-167",
    ```
    Our design can be at most 177 residues long. This specification will ensure that the lengths of each of our designed structures are short enough to have our final structure have a length of 167 residues, or shorter. 
1. For the purposes of this design, we happen to know that residues B251-B255 are important to include in our design, but it does not matter where they end up in our final structure. This is referred to as an 'unindexed motif' in the documentation. To include them, we will add the `undindex` option: 
    <!-- TODO: ask Raktim about why these residues are unindexed? Also in the test calculation I ran, only B251 ended up in the atom map? -->
    ```json
    "unindex": "/0,/0,B251-B255",
    ```
    Here we have two chain breaks before our unindexed motif to correspond to the contig string, these residues will go in the third chain of the output structure. 
1. Next, just because we specified that we wanted portions of our input structure to be part of our output structure does not mean that the atoms belonging to these residues will stay in the same place. Here, we want portions of our DNA strands to be stationary (the middle sections) while the portions towards either end of the double helix can relax:
    <!-- TODO: ask Raktim about why these are selected in the way they are? Does the contig no longer force the portions from the input structure to largely stay the same? Is it default to have atoms from the input to be fixed? -->
    ```json
    "select_fixed_atoms": {
        "C9-14":"ALL",
        "D28-33":"ALL",
        "C5-8,C15-18": "",
        "D24-27,D34-37": ""
    },
    ```
1. To define where the center of mass of our designed structure should go, we will use an ORI (origin) token:
    <!-- TODO: add image of ORI token placement -->
    ```json
    "ori_token":[25,35,20],
    ```
    ```{important}
    In this example the ori token is placed close to the center of our input structure. When designing your own enzyme scaffolds, you should try many ORI token placements. See the [RFdiffusion2 paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41592-025-02975-x) for more information about how ORI tokens impact the results of diffusion calculations.
    ```
1. Last, but not least, we want our design to have minimal loops. We will use the `is_non_loopy` option for this. As of the creation of this tutorial, there are no other parameters to control the secondary structure of the designs from RFD3. 
```json
"is_non_loopy": true
```
1. Save your file and close it. If you run the file now, your files should be similar to what is stored in `basic.zip`.

(hydrogen-bond-conditioning)=
### Hydrogen Bond Conditioning
The steps in this section are optional, skip to [Running RFD3](#na-running-rfd3). If you would like to include them, reopen your JSON file and append to what you added in the previous section. 
```{important}
Using hydrogen bond conditioning with RFdiffusion3 requires having HBPLUS installed. See the [RFdiffusion3 README](https://github.com/RosettaCommons/foundry/tree/production/models/rfd3) for more information. 

```
Hydrogen bond conditioning can be useful in the design of nucleic acid binders. Here we will apply it  to some backbone and base atoms for a few of the DNA bases: 
```json
"select_hbond_acceptor": {"C16":"N7,O6", "D31-32":"N7", "D28-30":"OP1,OP2,O3',O5'"},
"select_hbond_donor": {"D31-32":"N6"}
```

(na-running-rfd3)=
## Running RFD3
To actually run RFD3 you need to know:
- the directory you want the outputs to be stored in
- the path to the JSON (or YAML) file that stores the specific settings for the calculation
- the location of your checkpoint files

Once you have these three things you can run something like this from the command line:
```bash
rfd3 design out_dir=na_tutorial_outputs/0 inputs=rfd3_na_tutorial.json ckpt_path=/path/to/your/checkpoint/files/rfd3_latest.ckpt 
```

Your output files will be placed in a new directory `na_tutorial_outputs/0`. Your output files will be named `na_tutorial_dsDNA_complex_0_model_n.cif.gz` where `n` is the number of the design. `enzyme_tutorial` comes from the name of the JSON file and `cys_1euv_lig` comes from the name you gave your calculation in the JSON file.

```{note}
You may see several warning messages when you run RFD3, these should not interfere with the calculation. 
```

(na-analyzing-the-outputs)=
## Analyzing the Outputs
You should end up with 8 designs, numbered 0-7, each with its own `.cif.gz` and `.json` file. If you want to adjust the number, add the configuration option `diffusion_batch_size` to your `rfd3 design` command.

The JSON file has many details about your diffusion run, including the options in the JSON file you created. The compressed CIF file contains information about the final diffused structure that you can easily visualize with tools like PyMOL. 

Your results should look something like this: 
<!-- TODO: add image -->

You should notice that the location of the designed portions of your output structure are centered around the location of the ORI token as expected. <!-- TODO: add image--> You can also align the 2R5Z structure with any of the outputs to see that the atoms selected in `select_fixed_atoms` have stayed in the same physical locations. 

Checking that our unindexed motif is present in our designs is a bit more difficult, but the information we need is provided in the JSON file that is created with each design. If you open one of these JSON files, the first piece of information you see is a `diffused_index_map` that connects the residues from the input to residues in the output design. You should see that residues B251-B255 have been mapped to residues in your output structure. <!-- TODO: the output file only has a mapping for B251, why? -->

If you added the additional hydrogen bonding constraints then you can visualize the hydrogen bonding interactions with PyMOL. In one of the structures, go to (A)ctions -> find -> polar contacts -> within selection to see the polar interactions within the structure. <!-- TODO: add image -->

(na-references-and-further-reading)=
## References and Further Reading
- For more information on the different inference settings in RFD3, see [input.md](input.md)
- <!-- TODO: Ask Raktim about citations-->
- A more thorough discussion of the settings and configuration options in RFD3 can be found [here](intro_inference_calculations.md)