# Protein-Protein Interface Design in RFdiffusion3

## Before We Get Started...
This tutorial does not cover installing RFD3, before continuing you should make sure that RFdiffusion3 (RFD3) is installed and able to be run on your system. 

See the [README](../README.md) for installation instructions. You will need to remember the path to the directory where you stored your checkpoint files. 

```{note}
The instructions below assume that you have installed RFD3 via the pip commands.
You may need to slightly modify how you run the calculations based on your setup.
```

Make sure you have activated any environments you used to install RFD3.

RFD3 runs best on GPUs. It is suggested to follow this tutorial on an interactive GPU node, if you have access to one. <!-- TO DO: Say memory requirement-->

You will need the file `4zxb_cropped.pdb`. This is provided in [`foundry/models/rfd3/docs/input_pdbs`](input_pdbs/4zxb_cropped.pdb).

Lastly, we will be visualizing the outputs of the calculations presented in the tutorial using [PyMOL](https://pymol.org/). The visualization steps are completely optional, but if you would like to follow along you will need to have PyMOL installed. 

## Learning Objectives
In this tutorial, we will design a binder for the human insulin receptor to explore the settings available in RFD3 that are useful in protein-protein interface (PPI) design. 

## Setup
Create a directory named `rfd3_ppi_tutorial` and `cd` into it:
```bash
mkdir rfd3_ppi_tutorial && cd rfd3_ppi_tutorial
```
This is where you will be storing the files related to this tutorial. Download the `ppi_design_tutorial_files.zip` file and decompress it:
```bash
unzip ppi_design_tutorial_files.zip
```

If you would like to compare your outputs against those generated by the authors of this tutorial, you can download the example output files here. <!-- TO DO: Create example output files.-->
The 'basic' folder has neither of the settings in the [Other Useful Settings](#other-useful-settings) section. The 'redesign' and 'fixed' directories have the `redesign_motif_sidechains` and `select_fixed_atoms` options, respectively. The 'all' directory includes both of the optional settings.

There is also an already made YAML file available here. <!-- TO DO: Add example YAML file --> We recommend following the tutorial to create this file yourself to better understand the RFD3 options that are relevant to PPI design. 

## Creating the YAML file
In this tutorial, we will be briefly describing each of the settings we will be using for this example binder design project. 

1. Using your editor of choice, open a new file called `rfd3_ppi_tutorial.yaml`. This is where we will be storing all of the settings that tell RFD3 the type of designs we would like to make. 
1. Our calculation needs a name. For this tutorial, we will only be including one example calculation, but your YAML file could have several. A name allows you (and RFD3) to differentiate them. Since we are designing binders for the human insulin receptor, let's just call it `insulinr`:
    ```yaml
    insulinr:
    ```
    Everything that comes after this should be indented to show that it's part of this `insulinr` calculation. You will want to use spaces, not the tab character. If a tab character (`\t `) is found in the file, RFD3 will crash.
1. Tell RFD3 where to find your input file:
    ```yaml
        input: /path/to/rfd3_ppi_tutorial/4zxb_cropped.pdb
    ```
    This file was directly cropped from the 4zxb structure that can be found in the [RSCB PDB library](https://www.rcsb.org/). *If you visualize the cropped structure against the full one from the RSCB library, they may not appear to be exactly the same structure. However, if you align the two you will get an RMSD of 0.0.*
    ```{figure} .assets/ppi_tutorial/cropped_vs_full.png
    :width: 60%
    
    Cropped vs. full structure of 4XZB with the RMSD of their alignment shown. THe cropped structure is in green while the full structure is shown in purple.
    ```
1. The `contig` string is the main way you can tell RFD3 what portions of your input structure you want defined and what portions you want preserved from your input structure. 
    ```yaml
        contig: 40-120,/0,E6-155
    ```
    The different sections of the `contig` string are separated by commas. Here's what each section is telling RFD3:  
    - `40-120` specifies that we want RFD3 to design a new peptide chain that is between 40 and 120 residues long
    - `/0` is how a chain break is specified in RFD3. Unlike in the original RFdiffusion, this chain break is not a specific distance, RFD3 simply does not add a peptide bond where the break is. This way the chain break can be present while still placing the binder close to the input structure. 
    - `E6-155` is the portion of the input structure that we are keeping in our final output. The letter corresponds to the chain label in the input PDB and the starting and ending residue are included in the final structure. If you do not include the chain label, then RFD3 would just design a peptide chain between 6 and 155 residues in length.
1. We can also specify the overall number of residues in our final structure:
    ```yaml
        length: 190-270
    ```
    This is not absolutely necessary for this calculation as we only have one designed portion of our structure. Our `contig` string already enforces that the length of the final structure is between 190 and 270 residues long as the portion of the input structure we are using is 150 residues long. However, this becomes important when you have several designed sections of your protein that can have random lengths. 
1. Specifying 'hotspots' in your structure is a way to tell RFD3 which portions of your input structure should be close to the designed binder. Typically these are a subset of the residues that are important to the function of the protein, e.g. catalysis. Choosing these residues will require some scientific intuition, a thorough literature search, and some experimenting.

    Hotspots are specified by naming both the residue and the specific atoms within the residue that you want closest to the designed structure: 
    ```yaml
       select_hotspots:
            E64: CD2,CZ
            E88: CG,CZ
            E96: CD1,CZ
    ```
    ```{figure} .assets/ppi_tutorial/hotspots.png
    :width: 60%
    
    The hotspot residues along with the specific target atoms circled in yellow.
    ```
1. Next we need to add information about our ORI token, this token specifies where we want the center of mass of our designed protein to be. Unless you know where you want to place the ORI token for your specific design needs, it is often easiest to have RFD3 infer the ORI placement based on the chosen `hotspots`:
    ```yaml
        infer_ori_strategy: hotspots
    ```
    This setting will place the ORI token 10Å outward from the center of mass of the `hotspots`. The center of mass of the diffused region should be within 5Å of the ORI token.
1. Save you file and close it.

### Other useful settings
1. RFD3 does atom-level diffusion, so it can redesign side chains (change the sequence) we will leave this setting set to `false`. If you would like to see what happens when RFD3 redesigns the target/motif (your input structure), try setting this to `true`: <!-- Maybe add a sentence about when people should think about doing this. -->
    ```yaml
        redesign_motif_sidechains: true
    ```
1. Opposite to the previous setting, there is also a setting for allowing structural flexibility while keeping the sequence fixed, for example: 
    ```yaml
        select_fixed_atoms: 
            E25: []
            E26: BKBN
            E27: CA,CB,OG
    ```
    Here, an empty list indicates that all atoms are flexible, `BKBN` keeps the backbone atoms fixed while allowing side chain atoms to move, and for the last residue, specific atoms are fixed in place while allowing the others to move. Feel free to try adding this to your YAML file as well. 

## Running RFD3
To actually run RFD3 you need to know:
- the directory you want the outputs to be stored in
- the path to the YAML (or JSON) file that stores the specific settings for the calculation
- the location of your checkpoint files

Once you have these three things you can run something like this from the command line:
```bash
rfd3 design out_dir=ppi_tutorial_outputs/0 inputs=ppi_tutorial.yaml ckpt_path=/path/to/your/checkpoint/files/rfd3_latest.ckpt
```
Your output files will be placed in a new directory `ppi_tutorial_outputs/0`. If you run the tutorial again, change the `0` to another number to not overwrite your outputs. Your output files will be named `ppi_tutorial_insulinr_0_model_n.cif.gz` where `n` is the number of the design. `ppi_tutorial` comes from the name of the YAML file and `insulinr` comes from the name you gave your calculation in the YAML file.

```{note}
You may see several warning messages when you run RFD3, these should not interfere with the calculation. 
```

## Analyzing the Outputs
You should end up with 8 designs, numbered 0-7, each with its own `.cif.gz` and `.json` file. If you want to adjust the number, add the configuration option `diffusion_batch_size` to your `rfd3 design` command.

The JSON file has many details about your diffusion run, including the options in the YAML file you created. The compressed CIF file that you can easily visualize with tools like PyMOL. 

Your results should look something like this: 
```{figure} .assets/ppi_tutorial/example_output_w_hotspots.png
:width: 60%
    
Green is the original input structure while blue is the designed binder. The hotspot residues are purple and represented as ball and sticks.
```
You'll notice that the binders are always on the side of the input structure closest to the hotspots. The lengths of the designed binders are all also between 40 and 120 amino acids long. 

## References and Further Reading
- [input.md](input.md)
<!-- - intro_inference_calculations.md need to make this file--> 
<!-- Ask Rafi for recommendations, I'd like to at least include a resource saying where the hotspots came from-->


